[Music]
so thank you so much for joining us here
today and for accepting our invitation I
understand it was very tough decision to
make
yes there was some controversy before I
came to your fine school I came to this
wonderful place Oxford as I think you
call it
I received a lovely invitation to come
here to these hallowed halls and speak
to all of you and I agreed and said I'm
coming then about two days later I got
the following email and I hope it's okay
to share it with you right now is that
okay may I share an email with you wow
you're a fun crowd it's from another
college a college known as Cambridge
this is the email that went right to my
people two days after I accepted your
kind invitation I'm also aware that
conan's currently scheduled to visit
Oxford for a similar event it would be
incredible if we can also feature in
Conan's busy calendar the Cambridge
Union is older than the Oxford Union by
eight years
we are of the opinion that students here
at Cambridge are this is all
word-for-word a more engaged attentive
and more prone to asking insightful
questions as compared to their Oxford
peers and would love the chance to prove
this I just watched it I just want you
to know I got that email and I just
immediately thought who writes crap like
this
[Applause]
I'm going tomorrow uh
[Laughter]
that was so rude of them I thought you
were very nice to invite me and you
invited me first that's you know that's
this I mean that I mean I didn't say
that just because I'm here and I want to
suck up to you people well we never say
that people were trying to get from
Cambridge that were a better Cod that's
because you're secure you know
you guys know you're the best and you
don't to tell anybody you're the best
[Applause]
there's something actually wrong and
it's secure about those cambridge people
they frightened me and I will not go
there unless I'm paid I don't know why
I'm shouting I have a microphone but
there's something about this hall in
this institution that makes Dean want to
say I demand freedom and freedom
[Applause]
you can literally say anything in here
and it sounds more majestic than it
really is
I think Starbucks burns their coffee and
I don't die saying it this isn't going
to be a real conversation I'm gonna act
like a jackass the entire time
and there's nothing you can do about it
I think Cambridge made the right choice
I'm sorry I'll behave I promise so on
your podcast you think wow what an
energy drop
no it's not your fault used you went
right into conversational tone I had
just said we were going to free all of
the peoples of the world and get rid of
Starbucks coffee then we went into the
podcast there's no there's no easy ramp
from one to the other but let's get into
it the podcast you talk a lot about the
journey of becoming a professional
comedian yeah when was it that you
realized that that was what you wanted
to do well when I was a man when I was a
kid I loved making I come from a big
Irish Catholic family six kids
I believe there's others out there you'd
meet a new one occasionally in the
bathroom but and I was packed in the
middle and I used to make my brothers
and sisters laugh and then I made other
kids at school laugh but I never thought
it was a profession I grew up in
Brookline Massachusetts right outside
Boston don't pretend and and I thought
you can't be in show business
I didn't know anybody in show business
my father is a brilliant man he's a
microbiologist infectious disease
scientist and my mother is a brilliant
woman and was a lawyer for a big law
firm and I just thought my job was to
buckle down and be serious so I was
always fighting this nature and thinking
you can't do that for living you have to
be serious so I worked hard and I'm
again I just thought comedy was
something you did for your friends and
then my life changed when I went to what
we consider an old University Harvard
it's so hilarious that we are so proud
of the fact that Harvard's like 1638 and
then you come here and it's they have
McDonald's that are that old
and now I live in Los Angeles where
sometimes people will come to and look
at your house you know they'll come in
fit because something's wrong with the
basement and they'll say they're here to
fix it and they'll be oh man you got one
of these old houses went ahead they
built this during Obama's first term huh
so I've had to I went to Harvard and I
had worked really hard and I was a
serious student and the second I got
there a friend of mine said I'm off to
the Lampoon and I said what's that
like an idiot and he said it's the
college humor magazine and I said well
I'll tag along and I got addicted I
slept there I lived there I became my
life running the place I mean it was
very evocative of this place it was this
it's this old Hall it's got these old
traditions many famous writers and
cartoonists have come there now of
course a lot of the TV shows you you
watch or have seen have been written or
produced by Lampoon people it's really a
wonderful amazing place and I'm not
saying this because of your connection
there but it really did feel like my
Hogwarts experience when I went there it
was it was they I I worked very hard I
got accepted I was 18 years old and I
just said whatever this is I'm throwing
in my lot with these people and that
would have been 1981 when I was accepted
and since that day I've been thinking
and breathing comedy pretty much 24/7
since then and that changed my life when
I graduated college in 85 I thought how
do I keep doing this I need to keep
doing this even if I don't make money
doing this I have to do this and
fortunately it turns out it does pay and
I worked on Senate live I worked on a
few shows when I worked on Senate live
and then I worked on The Simpsons and
and then I got my own show and now I'm
here so it is it feels miraculous to me
I'm very people overuse the word
grateful in my business they say I'm
really great
for when it deep down inside they're
total assholes and they're not grateful
but but I really am I do i do feel
I'm a really good guy and that's
something good guys say but no I it's
been just a really great journey and my
favorite thing is connecting so I don't
care how I do it but not that long ago
someone came to me and said you should
do a podcast and I said why would I do a
podcast when I have a TV show that's
been on forever and it's on YouTube and
they said I think you might like it and
I really thought it was a stupid idea
and I started doing it and I can't tell
you I can go anywhere in the world and
people listened to the podcast very
differently than they watch a show they
get to know you and you can I've had so
many friends of mine who I called up and
asked they're very unselfconscious Lisa
Kudrow when I asked her do you wanna do
the podcast she said no hair no makeup
I'll be there in 10 minutes they they
really do love the fact that they don't
have to pretend to be someone else and
then you can have this incredibly
powerful conversation with them and you
can get to things that you could never
do in television I have to make a you'd
have had to take two commercial breaks
by now if this was on television
seriously you know for horrible products
and but here you don't it's it in this
podcast format you can attain this kind
of connection you can't attain any other
way so I absolutely love it and I love
the friends I mean in that short time
the couple of days that I've been here
in London and then here I've had so many
people come up to me people that have no
idea I'm coming here say oh I love the
podcast the podcast is meaningful to me
and so that's that's lovely
and you've been on air for decades what
what do you do to keep the show fun for
you fun for me yeah we fire people
you should you should see the look on
their faces these are people with
children they have mortgages and I'm
like Caligula at this point I'm like you
know I'm firing you and hiring my horse
you know and so that's fun
I would say one of the challenges with
anything is and everybody has this issue
I don't care who you are if your
whatever your field is you've got to
keep it fresh for yourself for me I
think I've been fortunate that I've been
forced to reinvent it many times the
initial show was one show that then
gradually morphed into a slicker more
polished show it started in 93 I think
it got a little more polished around
2001 2002 and then it morphed into the
Tonight Show and I went out for that but
that all blew up because I got into a
big argument with my network and I ended
up forced to read aside who I was and it
was this it was a huge story in America
and I had to figure out okay Who am I
now and start again on a different
network and that has gone through about
two revolutions so and now we've changed
the format again to half-hour because an
hour long I started looking at my
hour-long show and looking at how its
represented on YouTube which is how most
people see it and should see it and I
said these two don't relate to each
other
so I changed my show to look more like
it would on YouTube we just do half an
hour and I talked to one person as
opposed to a show that is comedy first
guest that you want to see second guess
you don't care about third guest you
don't care about and I hate to say that
to the second and third guest of the
world but right I decided I'm too long
in the tooth I've been doing it too long
I don't want to say it was great talking
to you now we're gonna stick around for
that guy who's 19 and he just got on a
show where he plays a brooding teenager
he's never had a life experience
his big disappointment in life is they
didn't have the Porsche in the color
gray he wanted and I'm supposed to
pretend to care about him so I couldn't
do that anymore so we we just shoved it
down to a half hour and then I talked to
one person
here's Will Ferrell I have a great time
talking to him we do much more than half
an hour for the studio audience and we
put all of it on YouTube because there's
no time restraint there and then we cut
it down to half an hour for Turner and
Warner Brothers so to me that feels like
how shows that's how shows should be
made now I'm not saying my other my
compatriots are in the dark ages but
well do the math you know I'm saying no
one drinks here I don't get it but
anyway you also talked a lot about
wanting your comedy to be evergreens as
someone can watch it 20 years from now
yeah my favorite comedy is right now in
the states as I'm sure you're all aware
it's people are very angry and so I
almost feel like comedy has gone in two
completely directions it's you know
there are people that have been it's all
about I mean all about politics the
entire show is politics and so when you
see the roundup for what they talked
about it's blank took down Donald Trump
today someone so roasted you know this
person the administration it's all that
and some of it's very clever and very
good but it's all that and then there's
another kind of comedy which is
completely escapist let's play games
let's have fun and then I feel like I
just found my own thing that I like
which is really silly comedy that I've
been doing since 1993 where I'm doing
the show and maybe someone interrupts me
and it's an old coal miner in the
audience and then we have an adventure
together and it doesn't make any sense
it's not linked to anything we use
puppets
I love puppets I love any stuffed animal
that's objecting to something that I've
done I love it comedy that just makes me
laugh and is silly and then I think one
of the things that's nice is I have
people your age coming up to me now and
they're saying oh I just saw that thing
last night
where you've you know you were god only
knows you you got on a bicycle and you
you drove up a caramel mountain and you
visited God and it was so silly and
stupid and it meant nothing but I really
liked it and I'll think wait a minute we
made that in 1994 in 1895
we had a very popular character on the
show for a couple years called the
masturbating bear and it was a bear in a
diaper that just masturbated on cue I'm
sorry I'm sorry but those are the things
you talk about when you invite me and
you want to talk economics we'll do that
next time but this is what you get but
it was just the silliness of it and the
craziness of it that I love so much and
so we're still finding people that come
back and see those old sketches and and
really like them and I like them because
you don't have to know it's not comedy
that goes bad 24 hours after you make it
because the outrage over that decision
to cut that item in the budget doesn't
make sense 24 hours after you've said it
but a bear masturbating is always good
comedy so like you said you don't react
to political and current affairs as much
as other well we do we do if we have a
good silly fun idea but I try not to
live off of it exclusively you know I
try to so everyone has their own way of
doing these things there's not a right
way there's not a wrong way there's just
the most important thing I say to people
who are interested in doing what I do
for a living is do the stuff that you
are passionate about and I've always
been passionate about silliness and the
stuff that influenced me I was very
influenced by English comedy growing up
I loved Monty Python I loved Black Adder
I loved the young ones I would watch all
these shows and then you know I I saw
the the British office came out and I
just loved that those are still funny
now it's they're talking about universal
themes you know and and to me that's the
kind of comedy that I love it's it's
completely silly and it's dealing with
human situations rather than here's what
happened in the news today which I
admire I think it's really great I just
don't think that's my skill set and
something else that you always come back
to is that really successful people are
often a lot more insecure about their
work than we would expect them to be
yeah how does that work for you well I'm
not but last I suppose no I you know
it's it's actually a it's really
important to me if you leave with no
other little if you leave with nothing
else today or tonight leave with this we
have a very we have a culture that's
constantly looking at our phones at
people that we think are so incredibly
happy and have everything and I will
tell you for a fact the disparity the
difference between what they're
projecting and how they are is
monumental a lot of the time it's not
that these people are all miserable but
I do think we're this Instagram age in
this age of projecting wealth and fame
and what's the what's the this
incredible fun that you can have there's
a lot of people out there that strive
because they're insecure they try harder
because they're running from something
or they're very unhappy it's not the
only reason they're successful but it's
a mixed bag and when you get successful
there's some unpleasant stuff that comes
with it and there's dealing with envy
and there's dealing with schadenfreude
and there's dealing with other people's
expectations that you're always going to
be that person and I wouldn't trade my
life for anything in anyone else's in
the world I'm very happy but I do think
I've seen so many people in my
profession American performers actors
comedians who I wouldn't want to be in a
million years they just they're unhappy
people and there's a lot of unhappy
people just as there are everywhere and
I think we get this
we get this bad read we just we're only
seeing this very flattened out image of
them laughing and driving a sports car
and we think if I had that all my
problems would be solved and I remember
thinking that you know when I was first
starting out in the business if I had
what these people had then I would have
no problems and that's why I really do
try to tell people that you've got to
enjoy what you do you have to enjoy it
there's so many people so many people
they want to be famous for fames sake
and fame is nothing I mean it is just a
clear broth it doesn't doesn't add much
flavor doesn't it doesn't have any
nutritional value and you know I can go
with this broth analogy forever if you
put meat in it for a long time that meat
will soften
[Music]
famous high insults and I you know I I
just I just I just encourage people to
look twice at that and say I do what I
do because I really do enjoy it I really
do like making this kind of stuff and I
felt like I had some facility for it but
I never enjoyed the brief periods of
time that that someone in the paparazzi
has wanted to take a picture of me
it just felt creepy it felt and and and
they eventually realized I'm the most
boring person in the world and that
their pictures of Conan O'Brien goes and
buys 2% milk again wearing sensible
outfit with dad bod was like not selling
you know I had a funny experience here a
couple of years ago I was in London and
a friend I didn't know this place but a
friend said to me join me for dinner and
I said ok and he said I'm at the Chilton
firehouse I didn't know what that was
but I guess it's this place where a lot
of stars go what's that you don't go
there all the time
well okay clearly I've just made a fool
of myself in front of everyone but there
was this place I'm running this
restaurant with the paparazzi would hang
out in front we have him in LA and you
go there if you want your picture taken
I didn't know that so I just go in and
then I eat my dinner and I come out and
it's all these people from all these UK
paparazzi with the giant you know and
they walk out and I think one guy sort
of knew me and took a picture so they
all started taking pictures and there
was like 40 people just firing away
photos and so I did this you know
and then I started to walk away and they
all put their cameras down to the one of
them said hey who the fuck are you I
said it was this is true I said I'm a
male model from Germany what I love that
they took a picture of me didn't know
who I was and they were yelling at me
essentially because I wasn't famous
enough you know was just such a weird
dynamic
I had Rui had wasted their time so on
another note following on from there was
no transition there at all
we're gonna head --it that for you too
we'll put something else in there you
know maybe some rock music or something
ACDC
no I do not seek out criticism my world
no you know that's one of the things
that we surprised me as I've had guests
come on the show very famous people and
they've confided in me oh I'm you know
after my last appearance people said
this about me or said that I actually
had a guest come on my show and in the
commercial break say to me last time I
was on people were saying this was a man
people were saying that I had had
terrible plastic surgery and it really
hurt my feelings and I haven't had
plastic surgery why would they write
that what this is the commercial break
and I said to this person why are you
reading that why would anybody anyone
can write anything why would you read
that and there is something in this new
world that you're all dealing with I'm
quite comfortable not knowing what
people say about me I just people have
said some and my deal that I made with
myself is I don't want to read the bad
stuff and so I won't read the good stuff
and I'm told there's been some really
nice things written and some really nice
publications and I just say that
it's nice to hear and people give me
this sort of gist of what it is but I
don't want to read it because if I read
that then I feel I have to go looking
for well I hate him you know his hairs
looks like a ridiculous pastry you know
my father wrote that I don't want to you
know and I that's one of the questions
that I have is when people start looking
for it is in my nature I will find the
unsmiling face in the crowd and wonder
what was his problem why wasn't he
having a good time and that is classic
all comedians do that but as you get
older you learn that that just that way
lies madness not no good will come of
that none so I'm not I know what it is I
do I have really good friends and my
friends tell me that wasn't great or
that was funny that wasn't so funny I
would have changed that I mean I I write
a tweet and I say what do you think and
I have interns in the office saying nope
bad and I I listen to them I listen to
other people and sometimes I get into
arguments with people I think really
because I think that's a good idea but I
try not to have an ego about it and so
people usually let me know when I've
missed the mark I'll know so I don't
need a random person you know who's or a
troll to tell me that I suck because
deep down I know that
that's not funny
you should feel sad now you mentioned
taking on board the advice of your
interns and part of what makes your show
Stan that is your relationship with your
staff and how that's woven into so many
Apple yes was that a conscious
production choice or was it something
that happened just you know there's an
old the most famous he was completely
unknown in the UK but the most famous
talk show host of all time in America
was this guy named Johnny Carson who I
grew up watching he's brilliantly funny
and he was and everybody watched him I
mean the entire country watched Johnny
Carson and what he said once is he was
on the air for 30 years and no one had
ever done that no one ever been on the
air for 30 years and he said once you'll
use it you'll end up using everything
you have meaning if you've got any kind
of skill or any kind of ability or
anything up your sleeve you will end up
using it and I found that to be true you
end up using whatever is available to
you when you have to do so much TV so
much someone there's so much product you
end up trying anything and you know
where it's like we're living in a we're
working in a bakery and we have to be
open 24/7 you'll end up trying stuff
like I'll just throw a carrot in there
and see what it was out you know broth
if you will and you end up trying things
and that's what we ended up doing and
our staff is there and my my assistant
is this personality and we were doing
tons of hours of comedy without even
realizing it we have these long insane
conversations with each other and then
we realized wait a minute what if we put
a camera on this and the interesting
thing about so now my assistant if
you've seen any of this stuff on YouTube
she doesn't change
she's always this she is the same person
you can put a camera on her you could
put her in Wembley Stadium and have
75,000 people stare at her she'll still
act like Sona and then want to go get a
grilled cheese sandwich afterwards you
know and go home to her husband she's
just that person so we started using
those people and it's added a whole
other layer you know we ended up
realizing we have this great resource so
we
as well use it and we don't want to
overdo it
but some of these people I have a guy
that works for named Jordan shlonsky who
is yeah the idea that in this great
historic Hall
that is seen like Churchill and Einstein
and Malcolm X the idea that the name
jordan shlonsky would be mentioned and
get a round of applause is such a cosmic
joke to me it's such a such proof that
there's ultimately it's a silly world we
live in
he is that guy he is that person he's
this weird strange guy I honestly don't
know what he does on the show every
every time I ask him he says I have
various tasks and duties I'm like what
does that mean well I attend to various
he keeps saying various and then
throwing other words in there and I
honestly don't know what he does so
we're very excited because you guys know
the property brothers those guys is that
is that big over here I don't know if
you guys know them but his office is a
mess and we brought these two huge
youtube stars in and surprised him with
the property brothers and they're these
big stars and we walk in and I go Jordan
look who's here to clean up your office
it doesn't even get up looks at them and
I went Jordan when people let's walk
into the room especially famous people
you should probably stand anyone there
fame is of no consequence to me they can
come or they can let you know just like
he doesn't we just surprised him with
cameras he had no idea we were coming
most humans would react a little bit I
see no reason to stand for these people
you know it's fascinating he's a weird
weird man and we're we're maybe I hope
we're advancing the cure for something
by putting him on TV
he also you just mentioned Johnny Carson
yeah what I'm sure you were fan of him
while growing up what was it like to
meet someone like that and realize that
they're a fan of you too well he wasn't
I'm not kidding he didn't really know me
I was brand-new and when I got my start
in America I was a complete unknown I
was a Simpsons writer and they were
looking for this big slot to fill and
today they would have thousands of
qualified candidates because of YouTube
the internet that have they'd have
there's so many people everyone has 75
episode shows on Netflix you know by the
time they're in utero and live from the
womb you know and so the idea that that
they would when if there was a giant
opening for a show if Stephen Colbert
decided he was going to step down they'd
be a million you'd know all the names of
all the people who were probably going
to replace him and I had this very
strange moment in time where it was
pre-internet so after Carson I would say
the biggest host was this guy David
Letterman and he suddenly left and there
was a hole and they said to my boss my
former boss it's aren't alive can you
find somebody to fill it and he went let
me think
and then through a series of just crazy
chances he said you know there's this
writer I know with weird hair and a
weird name who makes the other writers
laugh and they were like well does he do
stand-up no has he done anything not on
camera
you're kidding right no I think he might
be good and so they gave me a tryout and
I did really well at the tryout and they
gave me the show and the entire United
States said what who is this
what's a conan who is this person
seriously and then for the first year i
was on the air
I was never one-tenth as funny as I was
on the audition because it's one thing
to audition for something you don't
think you're gonna get so I walked into
the audition I'm like I'm never getting
this and depth up-down about it uh and
back then in the early 90s that was
funny and but I you know I just thought
oh you know I'm not getting this and I
was so relaxed that they said this guy's
got it you know put them on and then the
next thing you know I've got this show
and I suddenly I have responsibilities
and I have this irish-catholic sense of
I've got to do a good job and I've got
to make sure that I please everyone
which is the least funny space to come
from what an unfunny approach so my
first year on the air we did a lot of
really inventive fun comedy but I was
like yes yes well we'll return soon but
your graces and we'll see you back here
when we resume the program and I had you
know sweating and I hadn't hit puberty
yet and people were like I hate this
woman
and it was very people wrote the
nastiest things I mean I just got
destroyed in the press I mean are your
press can be mean our press was really
mean and man did they let me have it and
I remembered this is a true story I went
and saw I was starting to see a
therapist I was under so much pressure
and feeling like the whole world you
know and so I went in to see the
therapist and I lay down and I said I
think people hate me I think they want
me to go away
I think they think that I'm terrible at
what I do and that I'm a failure and the
therapist said listen these are voices
we all have and these are voices that
recur and it comes from your shame
center and it can happen but we all have
these voices and it's just a voice it's
not real and I said you asked it's the
cover of USA Today he held up the paper
and it said all of that stuff and he was
like well okay
maybe the paper is a dream I'm like no
it's a paper I could shove it in your
mouth right now well who's to say I'm
real you know that'll be a hundred and
eighty five dollars so but then it got
things got better and then the critics
turned around but man that was that was
and now I'm in this unique position
that's crazy that's another thing to
tell you about which is all these years
later I just was convinced I just said
well people hate us they hate us and we
got through those first couple of years
and then and now I meet these people who
inspire me um you know my one of my
favorite comedians working and he's just
lovely person and brilliant brilliant
comic John Mulaney
let's not go too far all right he's
coming to the Union in March oh he's
coming in March
well I'm here now the guys good but
let's not get crazy now he deserves that
and he's just so funny and he writes
he's such a brilliant writer and such a
great performer and but recently I got
to be friends with him and he would say
oh yeah I would used to watch you that
first year wasn't it great and I was
like what are you talking about everyone
hated me and he said I wasn't aware of
that me and my friends just thought it
was really weird and cool and funny and
I said why couldn't you have come and
said that to me back in 1993 and he's
like well I was 11 I think an 11 year
old in pyjamas coming to see you would
be weird you know but that's the other
thing too is that if I was just going
off of my feeling of how things were
going or the public perception of how
they were going all the evidence that I
had was was awful all the scientific
evidence was not good ratings bad
critics bad you know boy word on the
street you suck go home you suck just
just tough and then all these years
later these people whose comedy I just
love tell me oh we really liked you in
the big you know was really you know we
were watching right away and we liked it
and I I didn't know that but I think
that's something inspirational for
people to know is that again going back
to we live in this culture if you're
constantly checking in to see how you're
doing and how someone else doing
compared to you and you're getting a lot
of inaccurate information about how
you're doing you know how you're doing
as a person as an eighteen year old or a
19 year old or a 20 year old or whatever
who's here at Oxford at this moment how
you're doing you just don't know it
really is about how you feel about how
you're doing and and checking in
constantly on social media I think is
very tricky thing and I'm not some old
guy saying social media is a bad thing
I'm very young
[Music]
no I love social media and I think it is
mostly a force for good I just think
it's like one of those 52:48
propositions where it really is there's
so much there that can be very difficult
and I think there's a lot of pressure on
this generation there's so much pressure
on you that wasn't on my generation we
could be blissfully ignorant about what
someone else had for breakfast you know
how much they love avocado toast and how
many likes that guy we didn't know all
that and I think so there's a lot of
pressure that people are dealing with
here that I'm sympathetic to I think
it's time for questions from the
audience now so if you have a question
please raise your hand wait for the
microphone to come to you and please
stand up asking your question can we
start with the hand in the very back
over there remember with the glasses
you're at Oxford you said the guy with
the glasses the learning fellow who
takes things seriously yes yes you stand
hello Dean
I've been watching you for many years
what's your name Kevin Kevin hello Kevin
how much of the Georgians slansky
character is like made up because I feel
like I told you he is real he's a real
he's a real person and I've had
arguments with him when there's no
cameras around that are hysterical and
I'm thinking why aren't their cameras
rolling right now he is a real person
does he sometimes put maybe an extra ten
percent on it yes he does but don't pour
during my answers one's life
everyone's like I think he's gone mad
you up or hates me
where's my time to Cambridge I'm going
now
yeah but he's pretty much that guy and
he really is he really is okay thank you
I thank you I thank you Kevin Kevin you
get to keep that mic that's yours to
have that's a new thing we're doing here
at the Union once you get the mic don't
give it back
all right there all these people and
then they have to wait for the mic to
get to them this is awkward he's right
there I can hear him hi oh yes hello how
are you hi I'm good I'm really excited
to see you I'm very excited to see you
love your podcast thank you very much
so I especially love sohna so hi to Sona
I know she's not here
so yeah you talked about Jordan and you
mentioned sone already I was wondering
if you could talk a little bit more
about your relationship with Sona it
always seems pretty antagonistic but
also that you really really love each
other right well that's not what's uh
you know it is funny my wife's here and
she can validate the the actors playing
my wife is here that's my wife lies it
right there and she will tell you that
dealing with Sona on the phone about
anything in our it is that same person
she's 100% authentic it's my assistant I
hired her and then one day I heard this
strange language and I heard her - and
it was her talking to her mom she she
had never I'd only heard her speak
fluent Southern California English and
she was having this heated conversation
and I came out and I said what's going
on and she said I was just having an
talk with my mom and I didn't realize
that they're both speak Armenian and
they were both it's speaking fluently
and she's very loud and when they're
having a normal pleasant conversation it
sounds intense and so I came in and I
said what sounded like you were to
Dracula's we're having an argument you
know and immediately in that moment we
decided like he's to see that this
person's either offensive or this is
going to work and it worked
we just because she came right back at
me and you know living off potatoes and
you know and it it just gelled and we're
constantly you know we just did a thing
recently where I got her - it was a real
cameras were rolling we were just
talking and then she started talking
about all the stuff she's stolen from
stores and she just went and she was
like I took this lipgloss I took that
from this store and she knew it she had
an encyclopedic knowledge of all the
things that she's stolen over the years
so I said we should do a remote where
you and I go back to all those stores
and try and make amends and it's stuff
like she's you know it's all like dollar
ninety-nine lip gloss a headband from
forever 21 you know some socks with a
tassel on them from Gap for kids I don't
know why she stole that just weird stuff
but you know it it it just is so silly
and it works that that's what I think
one of the reasons that we keep doing it
and we did have a very nice we took her
to Armenia it was really fun to go to
Armenia and we didn't know what the end
would be and we had so much fun
adventures in Armenia and I took her
there's women there whose profession is
to find people a husband and you go and
we were looking at all these pictures of
these guys in her little house in
Armenia and so that was a fun remote but
then in the end we ended up going to the
Holocaust Memorial and that was
incredibly powerful and really amazing
and I do love it when a show like Conan
Without Borders which is on Netflix can
encompass really laugh-out-loud funny
moments and then I'm real moment didn't
feel exploitative at all it felt
we went there she wanted to go we told
the cameraman you've got to be out of
sight I told all the writers and the
producers you have to go away and we
just had this great moment and she was
crying her eyes out and it was really
powerful and it was a beautiful thing
and wherever I go now Armenians come out
and they say Conan but EV and I say inch
passaic love him you know and that's all
I know and
but but it's that's been the really nice
thing is that it's all about making
connections and you know is
sort of addicted to going to different
places and trying to see do they do they
can I connect with these people in Haiti
in Seoul South Korea in you know in
Italy and we just went to Ghana for a
year of return and had some really great
moments and you know I'm the whitest
person in the world but it just and we
had a guy who I was talking to and I'm
trying to learn about culture and Ghana
and he's from Ghana and he's this you
know he's just this really interesting
funny guy but he's looking at me and he
went your skin I'm wearing I was wearing
a short sleeve shirt and I went those
are freckles and he was like uh-huh and
I said what's the matter and he went I
thought you were sick and then I had the
experience of going to a club with him
and being the only white person in the
club and realizing this is how my
friends who are african-american who you
know live in in work on my show if they
go somewhere and they're the only person
of color there I know how they died I
seen it I see how it all gets flipped
around and I love that I love trying to
get outside myself and connect to people
and and see if we can make them laugh
you know that that's just a lovely part
of the job could we go to the number in
the blue in the back
hey Conan big fan
just wondering you've got a very
laid-back vibe man thank you
I'm from Canada what'd he say I couldn't
hear him okay wait it's kind of freaky
with all your Canada no yeah yeah that
too it's cold but you just stood up with
this so like hey man I love it my
question is so with like all eyes on us
with social media and stuff it feels
like everyone's kind of always watching
us at this stage in our lives and for
those of us who have maybe like TV and
media ambitions should we be extra
careful with what we put out there or
should we just kind of like go with it
and accept that society will maybe
change it to use and you know like when
you grew up there there wasn't maybe
that there was no smartphone sorry
what you're trying to say if I can
interpret in my day to get a dick pic
out there was very hard
you needed a lot of equipment you needed
it was like nine people involved and
then you had to mail them and it was it
wasn't worth it there was no erotic zing
at the end you know there was a
difficult time you know I that's the
part where I think yes obviously
I mean look we're all I see it both ways
because we currently have a president in
the in the United States who seemingly
has done all kinds of things that would
have ended anybody else's career five
years ago and his attitude seems to be
we're not talking about that right now
and then people he has that weird sort
of obi-wan Kenobi these are not the
droids you're looking for
he does the most outrageous things you
know and you're like wait a minute nine
porn stars and he's like these are not
the droids you're looking for
and we're all like these are not the
droids are and so you know I think it
would be a real shame if you didn't
everybody I'm gonna quote Hannah Montana
now everybody makes mistakes everybody
has those days that's all I know
I know that because I had a five year
old daughter when when she was all the
rage and she had a pen that every time
you clicked on it would sing that song
until the battery died and I ended up
just digging a well and dropping it into
the well but anyway I don't I would hate
for your generation to think I would
hate it if five and six and
seven-year-olds were thinking I might
want to be in broadcasting someday I
might want to be a comedian I better
keep my social image pristine for all
time I think that's an unrealistic
expectation personally so I think things
are going to adjust do I think that
people should try to be civil and show
common sense yes I think it's really
good idea if you're gonna be drinking a
lot to maybe put the phone in a box and
lock it you know
and so you come back around again just
because but I think there's going to be
a I think your generation and I say this
I think optimistically I think your
generation is going to we're in we've
been going through a moment where people
can go back and look back 15 years and
say oh my god or eight years or three
years and say look what you did at this
party we have this picture and your life
is over and I I think it would be
terrible for everyone in this room I
mean I have children I have a 14 year
old and 16 year old I don't want them to
go through life thinking that you're
this is the age where you're supposed to
be making some mistakes robbing some
banks committing some crimes but but at
the same time I think yeah you're
definitely you want to be responsible
with that phone in your camera you know
or that camera on your phone you know
you and so I'm probably the last person
bill to give you advice but I I hate the
sound of what I'm hearing from you is a
19 or 20 year old person who's saying
I'm bright I got a future
but how worried do I have to be about
everything I do on social media and I I
would like to think you don't have to be
that worried about it these silences in
between questions are great I got an
thanks for being here oh thanks very
much nice to be you talked about how you
like your comedy to be on universal
topics so it can be timeless but do you
think that besides that there's like
every generation has any particular type
of humor and if so what does it take to
make a millennial laugh oh well clearly
I wouldn't know but I would
but no I don't I don't I don't think you
know I think the best thing you could do
is go on like Adult Swim and that's just
an interesting example or just go on the
internet there's so many different types
of comedy there's there's always been
different brands and styles of comedy
and right now I see all of it happening
simultaneously I do not think there is a
type of humor that works for Millennials
and then if you go 20 years later
there's a different sensibility that
works for them I think there are certain
universal elements of comedy that
surprise people and are funny and we
tend to agree for the most part on what
those are and there's but I don't think
there's something it's specific to your
generation where I think oh this is what
a millennial thinks is funny because
look at all the different kinds of
comedy they're thriving right now
they're so completely different you know
and there's their you have even late
night shows in America the distance
between say what a Colbert is doing or
what a James Corden is doing is just
completely different it doesn't mean
that one's bad and one's good they're
just very different so I and then and if
I tried to say one of those senses of
humor is for Millennials and one isn't I
would be mistaken yeah
there's a guy right here on Dianna the
rover that I'm just gonna point up
there's a man right behind me who could
physically assault me if we don't get to
him wait I think I can take him stand up
stand up
oh shit okay forget it no I won't fight
him because I don't want to
I'd hurt him I think yes thank you again
for coming to speak with us they're not
going to the other place I was just
wondering it's like Voldemort now the
name was lace his name cannot be spoken
I was wondering you with your show in
the podcast as well are there any other
sort of great passion projects that you
sort of have always wanted to do on your
horizon
as you enter your Golden Age
it's funny you mention that because
there's a little meet-and-greet
beforehand
I guess people I don't know if they won
something or lost something but they had
to talk to me for about 10 minutes
before we came out here and one of them
said so about your attire a and you do
hit a certain age or when you've been
around long enough where you guys can
look up clips of me from 93 and it
probably looks to you like this is
footage from World War two you know and
I don't blame you for thinking that
what's funny is as you go along
I remember really clearly being your age
I remember it's so well and being at
Harvard we had a room it's just like
this it's called Sanders theater and I
did comedy there one night perform
comedy there one night and I remember
I'm so connected to being that age and I
honestly don't feel that differently now
that's a very strange thing and I know
that to everyone here you'd think that's
impossible it must hurt every time your
heart beats your stool must be a white
gel that part's true they don't know why
highly flammable anyway the point is
this the point is that that I don't feel
any different
I really do feel like I just like being
silly the way I did when I was 15 18 25
35 45 and now I'm 56 and I'm the same
way if there's certain people I see I
will get visit like you know people have
known for a long time
I'll wrestle them in a silly way I just
have that very very childlike attitude
about things and so I never really think
that much about well now I'm this age
and it's time for me to go into that
sweet light you know
I think most people don't think that way
they just I mean I like that I'm sort of
oddly not self-conscious about it
and I have a ability I think to in a
childlike way just be where I am now
which is I love doing the show I really
love doing the Travel specials those are
a joy
the Konan Without Borders shows and I
love doing the podcast and then when
they invent or I stumble upon some other
way to be silly or to sort of get my
essence out there that I will probably
try and do that so it's very interesting
it's it's why you probably look at
people and when I was your age I used to
look at people and think why don't they
stop now you know there must there's a
place they can go and they're cared for
you know and but then you get to the you
get to start to be that age and you you
think why would I do that I feel pretty
good and I like doing this so I think
I'll just keep taking a stab at it you
know until you know people like you say
we really don't want to hear what you
have to say here you know and that would
be rude to write me that just don't
invite me the point is is if you went
out of your way to write me and say we
don't want you to come that would have
been incredibly rude you did point out I
want to bring this up I said to that
thought oh we were what you gave me a
nice tour because you wanted to show me
what it was like out in the rain and
you're very lovely you were really nice
and and you gave me this great tour and
then at one point I was saying like so
kind of like trying to get to how did
you decide to invite me and you went we
invite lots of people thousands and
thousands and every now and then some
sucker says ok I'll pay my own airfare
that was that was really I that was a
really funny part was my manager who's
been with me forever he's always used to
he this is it's his job it's what he
does so he didn't get the memo you know
but my my when I'm someone in my office
told me you've been invited to speak
here and I've know what this is and I
thought this is really cool and I want
to do that and that's during a week when
I could get to look to London so let's
do it and then I think Gavin pallone my
manager was like he quote he told me he
said I called them I talked to them to
try and hammer them on the money I don't
know who it was but I just pictured
somebody picking up the phone but
there's no money what are you talking
about and then he's like well then he
wants seven first-class airplane no he
gets nothing it's the honour of it all
he called me up honor of it all what is
this crap we'll get our money somehow I
know it
someone's going to lose a scholarship
because of this
that'd be so great if we took away some
like someone who really deserved it
there's scholarship and then I'm just
driving around La in a Bugatti that says
Oxford what an ass
unfortunately we don't have time for any
more questions I'm sorry but thank you
so much for coming here can I just say I
know that you you want me out but this
really is this is legitimately a joyous
thing to get to do to come to get an
opportunity to come to speak to so many
young smart people and it's just
absolutely lovely
there's been a real treat for me so
thank you for having me
you